Alright! In this video, we are going to
take a closer look at how we connect
to MySQL, so there's a number of
different options there. I want to talk
about it a little more in-depth. So
there's two primary types of connections
that we're going to be dealing with. One
is what we call a local connection.
You're going to be connecting to MySQL from
the command line on the machine that is
running MySQL. So the MySQL server
software is running on the same machine.
How it connects is really going to be
dependent upon your operating system.
There are different options for
different operating systems. I'm not
going to get into that rabbit hole right
now. But understand you're going to be
running in a command line talking to
MySQL directly on that machine. Now
you do also have the option of a remote
and client connection. This is probably
by the far the vast majority of how
clients are going to be connecting to
MySQL. They're going to be running on a
different computer, a different server,
laptop, whatever, and they will be
connecting to MySQL that way.
This is a direct connection so don't
think about like using a web page as
connecting MySQL because you're
connecting to the web server and not the
database server directly so that the web
server would be talking to the database
server on your behalf. This is talking
about getting a direct connection to
MySQL. Now you can actually do this on
the same machine running MySQL through
the network layer or you can connect to
the MySQL server from a different
machine over the network, so both are
very common use cases. Now we talked a
little bit about the client protocols
that there are a number of protocols
that MySQL does support. TCP/IP is the
most common and that is what we are
going to be looking at in this course.
Socket is a very Unix, so Unix, OS X and
Linux, they are all POSIX based
operating systems, so they will have the
socket option. Then, Pipe and Memory.
Those are going to be Windows specific
connection techniques. But the one that
spans everything and the one that we
will be using inside this course is
TCP/IP. If you're a little bit new to
networking, TCP is Transmission Control
Protocol and IP stands for Internet
Protocol. Now this works in conjunction
with DNS, which is considered a domain
name service so this is going to
associate an IP address an Internet
Protocol address with a human readable
name. So like google.com it's actually a
human readable name for the IP address
of 216.58.218.110 so that is the
actual Internet address of google.com.
Now localhost's IP address of 127.0.0.1
and we will be seeing that in this
course, that's why I'm bringing it up.
The other thing that we need to
understand is a port. This is like a
logical connection endpoint of an IP
address. So a port is a way I'm going to go
to this address, I'm going to talk to you
with this language of X. It's kind of
like the protocol but you also have a
listener there, so you want to go to
this port and you're expecting Fred to
be there and Fred happens to know
Spanish so you're going to go to that port
and talk to Fred in Spanish. So that's
kind of like how the protocols and ports
work, so it's a little bit confusing. If
you're now very familiar with networking
technology, the main thing to remember is
that it is a logical. A port is a logical
connection endpoint on an address. So now
ports can range from 0 to 65535. There's
a number of ports in use. MySQL has the
default of 3306 for its port. We will
be using 3306 throughout the course.
You can configure MySQL Connect down a
different port. Some people do this for
security purposes to obscure it. It is a
perfectly valid thing to do. But for this
course, we are going to be using the
default value of 3306. Now here's an
example. On the middle there, we have
MySQL. That is our database server
that's surrounded by clients with TCP
connections into it and let's say that
server has an address of 127.10.10.4
and everybody's going to be
connecting on that IP address over port
3306. So that I'm hoping this will help
you visualize how your clients and
different computers are going to be
talking to the MySQL database
server.
Now connecting to MySQL in this course,
we really have two primary options. We
will be working from our own computers
with MySQL running on that computer. So
we will be using either localhost on
port 3306 or the IP address of 127.0.0.1
on port 3306.
Now it's important to remember that the
word localhost actually will resolve to
127.0.0.1. As you do the
connections, I might switch between
using localhost and the IP address. It's
perfectly fine to do one. There's really
no reason to do one over the other.
Neither is right and neither is wrong.
Now once you are in the enterprise
connecting to an actual MySQL database,
generally you're going to want to use that
name because if the IP address changes,
then what this allows your IT
department to do is if IP changes, they
can update that name to a different IP
address so there's tools to do this.
So when you are doing, if you're like
writing reports and stuff, you want to be
using the server name, not the IP address
In case for whatever reason that IP
address changes. Now coming up in the
course we are going to be looking at the
command line. We are going to be using a
program called MySQL handily enough.
Literally it's a program called MySQL.
We're going to use that connect to the
MySQL database and I have videos to show
you on this coming up in the course.
This is actually a client program for
the command line. It gives you a shell to
work with the MySQL database and it's
got some nice features in it. We're not
going to spend a lot of time there. We're
going to focus on using MySQL Workbench.
This is a graphical user interface we're
working with MySQL database. It's got a
lot more rich features. I'm going to be
doing the majority
do the course using MySQL Workbench. It's
a good tool. Now there are a number of
different tools available, a number of
different clients available for MySQL.
Obviously you know MySQL is wildly
popular so there are a lot of options
that you can use. If you want use
something other than MySQL Workbench, you
are absolutely welcome to. But going
forward MySQL Workbench is probably the
most popular one out there. Although I do
have my own personal preferences, we will
be using that throughout the course. Now
here's an example of the MySQL Workbench.
This is for OS X. This an example of the
UI that you get. You can see this is a
lot more rich of experience to work with
than just the simple command-line. So we
will be seeing this a lot more in the
course coming up. Coming up in the
remainder of this section, we will get to
see how to use the command line and then
we will install and bring up MySQL
Workbench and we'll be using it from
there on.